# Assignment - 1 (Rakesh Yarlagadda - ry2294)
For this assignment I have used Twitter tweets stream. Twitter stream apis emit tweets produced by Twitter users around the world. In terms of Twitter, a tweet is a status update by a user. A tweet consists of lot information regarding the new status of the user as well as user back ground informaiton such as name of the user, geo location from which the user has tweeted, text of the tweet, source of the tweet etc. Whenever a Twitter user updates his status a tweet is generated by Twitter and this information will be broadcasted thorugh the streaming apis. Twitter streaming apis also provide filters for filtering the stream of tweets so that api clients can specify what data they are interested in.

For this assignment, I have created the filter of location and given the location coordinates of world. It means that I am interested in all the tweets created by Twitter users across the world. However, I am furthur more filtering on the basis of whether each tweet has username, text, geo location information and source information. With these filtering conditions, I have calculated the incoming volume of data to 5 tweets per second. More informaiton related to tweet can be looked up at https://dev.twitter.com/overview/api/tweets 

For this assignment I have used NodeJS technology for consuming twitter data, creating a websocket server and serving the home.html webpage which updates the tweets published by the server using socket.io framework.

### Commands
To run this application, download the assignment-1 folder and run the below commands.
1. npm install // installs the node modules required

2. node server.js // runs the server and starts consuming tweets

3. open url: localhost:8080/ in browser